# [NY Web Performance Meetup: Flexible Architectures for Web Performance](https://www.meetup.com/web-performance-ny/events/300601025/)

## 2024-05-21

Today in the web performance space we have a lot of technologies that were invented to speed up various parts of the applications.
Many of them are successful when they can be just put in place without changing anything in the applications or at least with minimal changes, like network protocols or image formats.

However some more advanced features like progressive web apps, edge cache for HTML responses, edge workers and few other features like that are hard to implement in the regular web applications incrementally.
To successfully implement them today, applications have to be built with these technologies in mind from the beginning. This rigidity is something that blocks a lot of innovation from reaching the real world applications that desperately need to get faster.

In this talk, Sergey Chernyshev will discuss several of these technologies, highlight the importance of Flexible Architectures and will propose a radical idea of Borderless Computation as a possible solution for the problem.

Sergey Chernyshev is a web technologist with passion for web performance and open source.
He loves working at the intersection of product, design, engineering and operations to solve Speed of UX problems.
Sergey is a Google Developer Expert in Web Technologies, specializing in Web Performance and sometimes speaks at local New York events and global conferences.


