# [Boston Web Performance (BWP)](https://www.meetup.com/boston-web-performance/events/304542099/)
      
## 2024-12-06
      
## Details

December's meetup will feature Paul Calvano, on his return from the PerfNow conference in Amsterdam.

## Agenda

* 4:30 pm: Arrive & networking
* 5:00 pm: Talk starts
* 5:45 pm: Networking & Pizza

## The Talk
Web performance is a complicated topic, but over the years it's become easier to articulate thanks to incredible advancements in performance features, browser adoption and tooling. However, all too often a feature is implemented incorrectly, resulting in a lost opportunity for performance improvement. During this talk I'll explore a few commonly implemented web performance techniques - some that you may be familiar with and use already. We'll look at HTTP Archive data to show how prevalent some of these mistakes are and explore the potential benefits of fixing them.

## Speaker
Paul is a Performance Architect at Etsy, where he helps optimize the performance of their marketplace. Prior to that he worked as a web performance consultant at Akamai and Keynote (now Dynatrace), helping websites optimize their performance since as early as 2000. Paul is a co-maintainer of the HTTP Archive, a really cool open source project that has been tracking the evolution of the web since 2010. He's an author of various chapters of the 2019 Web Almanac and also a co-organizer of the NY Web Performance Meetup group. He writes about web performance and shares HTTP archive research at paulcalvano.com.

## Location

* The meetup will be held on the 14th floor of Akamai's headquarters at 145 Broadway, Kendall Square in Cambridge, MA. It's a short walk from the MIT/Kendall Red Line T stop, or via the EZRide from North Station.
* There is no parking on site, and limited street parking, so consider using public transport or biking.
* You will need a Photo ID to attend this meetup, and the name on your ID should match the name you use to register on meetup.com.

## RSVPs
Please RSVP by December 2nd so that we can get a list to the security desk. For any questions regarding the requirements, please contact the organizers.
