# [NY Web Performance Meetup: The Hidden Cost of Media Bloat](https://www.meetup.com/web-performance-ny/events/313207419/)

## 2026-03-17

Media content has become the dominant contributor to page weight and network utilization across modern websites.
Content, marketing, product, and other teams are pushing to use richer media, especially now that gen AI is reasonably solving the content-generation bottleneck for both images and videos.
As a result, dev teams often ship ineffective solutions, creating another bottleneck: a degrading user experience and worse overall page performance.
In this keynote, the Co-Founder and CTO of SpeedSize will deliver an honest assessment of how media assets, especially videos, create performance bottlenecks at scale, and why outdated techniques struggle to adapt to real-world variability.
The talk highlights the main mistakes and the effective best practices that influence optimal media delivery. The session concludes with a forward-looking view of media optimization as a dynamic discipline, where delivery decisions must balance between quality, performance and operational efficiency.
Attendees will gain a practical framework for evaluating and modernizing their media delivery strategies to support increasingly media-rich web experiences while minimizing performance compromises.

Vlad Malanin, Co-Founder & CTO at SpeedSize. Serial startup founder, inventor, scientist and software architect with experience in high-load web development, AI, neuroscience, cloud computing, big data, media compression and CDN. M.D. hons, PhD in CS.
