# [Web performance developer room at FOSDEM](https://fosdem.org/2025/schedule/track/web-performance/)
      
## 2025-02-01
      
The web performance developer room is hosted by Mozilla and Wikimedia. It will focus on ongoing open standards development and FLOSS projects that support performance of the world wide web. The web performance field is driven by open standards (browser APIs, internet protocols), and relies on many FLOSS tools to monitor, analyse and improve performance.

Most conferences about this topic tend to focus on best practices and standards once they’ve been finalised, while the ongoing creation of standards and FLOSS tooling development is rarely talked about. The objective of this developer room is to bring focus to the future of web performance through open standards, and open source developer tools.

Here are some topic suggestions:
* FLOSS tools to monitor, measure, analyse, optimise backend or frontend web performance
* Open standards (eg. HTTP/3, upcoming JS/HTML/CSS standards)
* Academic research on web performance
* Share your web performance story: Share your challenges and your solutions and what you learned 
* Ethical web performance: Address the balance between performance optimisation and user privacy, especially in the context of increasing concerns about data collection practices by large corporations.

Please submit your talk proposal by December 1st. We will let you know if your call has been accepted by December 15th.

All talks will be in person, and can be 30 to 45 minutes in duration (including Q&A).

You can submit your talk proposal at [https://fosdem.org/submit](https://fosdem.org/submit) making sure to select *Web Performance* as the track.
