# [Performance Observer: Building fast websites for everyone and profiling JS in production](https://performanceobserver.dev/events/episode-4/)
      
## 2025-05-14
      
## Building a fast website for every single visitor

Learn how to build fast, adaptive web applications that dynamically respond to user conditions and context in this informative talk. Discover the principles and techniques behind adaptive design, including responsive layouts and dynamic interactions, optimized for different browsers, device strengths, internet speeds, screen sizes, and user preferences. Explore the role of data-driven decision-making and user analytics in tailoring content and features quickly and efficiently based on these variables.

*Medhat Dawoud* (He/Him) is a Senior Software Engineer at Miro and a Google Developer Expert in Web Performance with extended experience in several web technologies, through his writings on his blog, online video courses, and talks he likes to share learnings, tips to write cleaner/reusable code, and useful DevTools, also he likes to speak about web performance and how to ship a fast and accessible web application to everyone.


## Why Local Profiling Isn’t Enough: Profiling End Users

The Chrome Devtools is our bread and butter but we may be leaning on it too much when fixing production performance issues. You get a user complaint about performance and you spin up chrome devtools and try to reproduce it. But if your app is at scale, with >1M users and hundreds of user flows, this approach breaks down. We'll explore how to profile JavaScript in production and how it can help us better understand performance.

*Amila Welihinda* (He/Him) is the founder and CEO of Palette, the performance observability platform for web apps. Prior to Palette, he worked at amazon.com's performance team, working to cut its load time in half. Before that, he was a long time open source contributor to electron, eslint, and babel tooling.
